TV Detective

A fan page about great tv detective shows, especially the ones from the 70s like Columbo, Kojak, and so on


relational database:
character: created by
            played by



What can this web page do?

Users can create an account, login, search through a database of big time tv shows. They can request tv shows
 to be added


 They can write reviews of shows like this one is a review of Mike Hammer's. You select the episode and add
 your review



Impetus for page:
A few years ago, I sort of caught the bug for watching episodes of Columbo. There was no great reason for it other tha
I remember reruns coming on at a certain time on Sundays, so I would try to catch episodes.
There was a short lived youtube channel that uploaded clips and sometimes full episodes but I don't know
what happened to it, it seemed to disappear down that rabbit hole of weird youtube streaming copyright stuff.

Anyway, it's bizarre how engaging Columbo is since it isn't even a who-done-it but how Columbo will catch the perpatrator
Everything is all about how


attributes of the show:
-how are crimes solved: forensics, detective logical deduction


Mike Hammer review: www.murder

This episode kind of shows how the whole setup of this show doesn't work. It's an old fashioned hardboiled detective
story set in the 90s. I mean, Mike Hammer is this tough guy private eye who dresses like he's Sam Spade, and
 the dialogue is written like those old time Humphrey Bogart witty exchanges with Lauren Bacall. It feels so out of place.
 Also, it suffers from the constrictions of aiming for a tv network audience which has to navigate between the worlds
 of sordid grittiness mixed with reasonably family friendly episodes. I mean, if it seems impossible to write an episode
 about an internet snuff video and make it pg-13, that's probably because it is and this formate cannot work.
 The Mike Hammer character operates in a much more violent and thuggish universe than the more elegant world of the
 Hercule Poirots or Sherlock Holmes or even Columbo.

 The episode is all over the place with


 Fictions vs Fact (true crime vs fiction)

I've seen enough episodes of Forensic Files and other similar true crime format episodes to see that
real life crime is something that needs to be carefully covered. For one, it's very important not to glamorize
the perpatrators in any way. If it's a means of bringing attention to the victim and maybe educate the audience
on observing warning signs of associating with violent sociopaths, I can see some value. It's tricky territory.
One has to avoid trying to commercially exploit the lurid nature of these crimes.

Fictional crime can also be a tricky subject because again, one does not want to glamorize the world of criminal
investigation because it can be misleading to people. That's why some elements of pure fiction, as in somethign
that has no possible correlation to the real world, are a good way to remind audiences that this is a work of fiction
and thus should not be taken seriously.
A lot of people have little to no knowledge about how the actual world of criminal investigation.


On some level, it might be good to educate the public on how the justice system has failed in the past, how
some kinds of evidence used in court room cases are less reliable than people think. Take eyewitness testimony.
They are nowhere near as reliable as one would hope, especially when it comes to the burden of proof used to
convict people of crimes that they may have not committed. People can be quite easily deceived and juries can as
well.

